project/slidecraft-101/index.html.md, before:

---
title: Slidecraft 101
date: "2024-06-05"
description: |
  All things slidecraft with Quarto Revealjs slides
categories:
image: "featured.png"
---



I find slidecrafting an entertaining endeavour, and have thus created a number of projects and material to further it in the world. This is a round overview of the material I have created.

I use [Quarto](https://quarto.org/) to create slides using the [revealjs](https://revealjs.com/) framework.

## Blog posts

Change the appearance of your slides. Colors, fonts and sizes

- [Colors and fonts](../../post/slidecraft-colors-fonts/index.md)
- [Code and Output](../../post/slidecraft-code-output/index.md)
- [Better SCSS files](../../post/slidecraft-scss-uses/index.qmd)
- [Theme Varients](../../post/slidecraft-theme-variants/index.md)
- [Advanced Slide themes](../../post/slidecraft-scss-themes/index.qmd)

Interesting things to add to your slides

- [7 Tips and Tricks](../../post/slidecraft-7-tips-and-tricks/index.qmd)
- [Layout](../../post/slidecraft-layout/index.qmd)

## Quarto Themes

- [Cinco de Mayo](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-cinco-de-mayo)
- [Watercolor earth](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-earth)
- [NES.css theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-nes-theme)
- [letterbox theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-letterbox)
- [inverse theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-inverse)
- [seasons theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-seasons) to showcase [Theme Varients](../../post/slidecraft-theme-variants/index.md)
- [personal starter template](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-template)

## Quarto Extensions

- [highlightword](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-highlightword)
- [codewindows](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-codewindow)
- [roughnotation](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-roughnotation)
- [designmode](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-designmode)
- [snow](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-snow)

## Other

- [iFrame Examples](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-iframe-examples)

Commit message:

add slides to slidecraft project

project/slidecraft-101/index.html.md, after:

---
title: Slidecraft 101
date: "2024-06-05"
description: |
  All things slidecraft with Quarto Revealjs slides
categories:
image: "featured.png"
---



I find slidecrafting an entertaining endeavour, and have thus created a number of projects and material to further it in the world. This is a round overview of the material I have created.

I use [Quarto](https://quarto.org/) to create slides using the [revealjs](https://revealjs.com/) framework.

## Blog posts

Change the appearance of your slides. Colors, fonts and sizes

- [Colors and fonts](../../post/slidecraft-colors-fonts/index.md)
- [Code and Output](../../post/slidecraft-code-output/index.md)
- [Better SCSS files](../../post/slidecraft-scss-uses/index.qmd)
- [Theme Varients](../../post/slidecraft-theme-variants/index.md)
- [Advanced Slide themes](../../post/slidecraft-scss-themes/index.qmd)

Interesting things to add to your slides

- [7 Tips and Tricks](../../post/slidecraft-7-tips-and-tricks/index.qmd)
- [Layout](../../post/slidecraft-layout/index.qmd)

## Quarto Themes

- [Cinco de Mayo](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-cinco-de-mayo)
- [Watercolor earth](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-earth)
- [NES.css theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-nes-theme)
- [letterbox theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-letterbox)
- [inverse theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-inverse)
- [seasons theme](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-seasons) to showcase [Theme Varients](../../post/slidecraft-theme-variants/index.md)
- [personal starter template](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-template)

## Quarto Extensions

- [highlightword](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-highlightword)
- [codewindows](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-revealjs-codewindow)
- [roughnotation](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-roughnotation)
- [designmode](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-designmode)
- [snow](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-snow)

## Talks about slidecrafting / quarto theming

Here is a selection of talks where I talk about slidecrafting or quarto theming in general. It doesn't include ALL talks as there is some overlap between the talks I have given. See [talks page](../../talks.qmd) for all my past talks.

[Branded Quarto](../../talk/2024-06-05-branded-quarto/index.md)

<iframe class="slide-deck" src="https://emilhvitfeldt.github.io/talk-branded-quarto/"></iframe>

[Slidecraft with quarto](../../talk/2023-11-27-slc-slidecraft/index.md)

<iframe class="slide-deck" src="https://emilhvitfeldt.github.io/talk-slc-slidecraft/"></iframe>

[Styling and Templating Quarto Documents](../../talk/2023-09-19-quarto-theming-positconf/index.md)

<iframe class="slide-deck" src="https://emilhvitfeldt.github.io/talk-quarto-theming-positconf/"></iframe>

[Slidecraft - the art of creating pretty presentations](../../talk/2023-07-13-nyr-slidecraft/index.md)

<iframe class="slide-deck" src="https://emilhvitfeldt.github.io/talk-nyr-slidecraft/"></iframe>

## Other

- [iFrame Examples](https://github.com/EmilHvitfeldt/quarto-iframe-examples)
